This file describes more general tips on how to use the Fityk and the script analyze_and_plot.lua to fit
lines in an actual experimetal campaign.


* Read "_README script.txt" and prepare Fityk as described in it. That file is very important to follow to the point.


* I tend to use Excel for creating the files in info_folder. There is such a file in the Examples folders. 
After creating a sheet with the necessary info I export it into csv. Sometimes Excel adds non-unicode characters 
like no break space. Then these must be removed. Also, Ecxel exports the file like the cells are formatted. 
Make sure you have enough decimals (e.g. 5-6 for wavelengths). If the sheet contains more fields as equations 
that result in blank fields then the output ASCII will have empty comma lines at the end. The script reads in 
the files faster if these comma lines are deleted beforehand (if there's tens of thousands of these).

* I have written code that checks the values of files in input info folder. If there's an error in a value or 
it's blank then the default value is written instead. If an entire column is missing then it gets written full 
of default values. However, I haven't fully tested every nuance, so there's a chance of crashes when being 
sloppy with the input info.

* The three files (e.g. Pixel_info*.csv) can have anything for the wildcard character (*). The only thing is that the
files have to start with e.g. "Pixel_info" and end with ".csv". I put a character in front of the files I don't want
to use but want to keep in the folder for future use (e.g. "xPixel_info*.csv").


* Pixel_info*.csv file
To get actual wavelengths it's advised to take many identified spectral lines and do a linear regression for
the measured locations vs database wavelengths. It's best to check for misidentified lines during the process (outliers
in the regression). Finally generate a column in the output Excel sheet which takes measured unit as input and gives 
the result of the regression function. This process is more complicated when the wavelength correction doesn't follow
a smooth line (e.g. linear or polynomial) but something else. E.g. for Echelle-type spectrometers where the spectum
is pasted together from different locations on the camera matrix, the wavelengths would ideally be calibrated for 
every diffraction order. In practice, this means that you would have inaccuracies in the wavelengths and need to 
account for it when creating Lines_info*.csv file.

Pixel_info*.csv file contains the pixel-wise correction values.
Sensitivity column expects multipliers. That is, inverse values of spectral sensitivity. The y-axis values are 
multiplied with the values in this column pixel-wise. If there is no calibration data then write the entire column full of 
values 1. If there is calibration data (e.g. W lamp output) then find the function/model of the curve of the 
calibration lamp's expected output and generate values for every measured unit. Then take the measured calibration
lamp output and divide the expected output values with the actual output values to get the multipliers. It's advisable
to smooth the resulting multiplier curve to diminish the influence of noise. Be careful when dealing with an Echelle-type
spectrometer, as the spectral sensitivity has modulations in it for every diffraction order.

The easiest way to identify lines and/or check the wavelength correction accuracy is to calculate spectral sensitivity 
and multiply the sum of many raw spectra (e.g. 50-100 laser shots deep in bulk layer where situation doesn't change much). 
Now I add line functions to all appeared lines and fit the spectrum. After a good fit for all lines has been acquired, 
I copy-paste the center parameters of the relevant lines into the linear regression. Fityk's GUI is good for this process 
(except for multiplying 2 datasets pixel-wise, for that use utility scripts from the repository). 
Finally, I use the created Pixel_info*.csv file and run the script to process the spectrum with it. Then I fit some known
lines on the data. If the wavelengths of the lines match with the ones in the databases then everything works and the file
is successfully fine-tuned.


* Spectra_info*.csv file
This file contains the spectrum-wise correction values. The gain used by the camera needs the gain function from the 
camera datasheet. This function needs to be written in _user_constants.lua into the variable gain_functions.
This file can be split into multiple files and renamed in order to have multithreading and processing multiple datasets
simultaneously. It doesn't matter if you have only one Spectra_info*.csv file or multiple. All are read into LUA memory
into one table.

If you want to quickly disable one experiment series then you can put a comma in front of the row in question in 
Spectra_info*.csv. Then the first field is empty and since this is assumed to be the filename then the script skips this
row in the file.


* Lines_info*.csv file
The best results in fitting are gained when fitting all of the lines that appear in the spectrum, not only the identified
lines. This is because if an unidentified line is near an interesting line but it isn't fitted, then the interesting line
tries to account for the pixels of the other line, making it wider and trying to shift it. The script used to write
noise-level lines as 0 intensity. Generally, you can add many weak lines with the only downside of the fitting time. 
Since the script considers pixels only in a local window defined by "Max influence radius (m)" field (only the 
datapoints and lines in that window are active), then lines that are far away from the interesting line can be omitted 
without any drawbacks.

Also, the best results are gained when locking and limiting the range of as many variables as possible during fitting. 
This is why max line width and shift are defined in Lines_info*.csv and e.g. min_FWHM_function in _user_constants.lua
It's advisable to test the spectra manually and try out as many different situations throughout the experimental campaign. 
In some cases a line might be wider than in other cases (e.g. different gas pressure for different spectra series) 
and in some cases new lines appear and old ones disappear. Use as tight bounds as possible while still remaining within 
the safety margins of the potential line variable change. Also, if a line is very wide compared to others 
(e.g. Stark broadening) then you can use Lorentzian instead of Voigt. This way there is one less variable that can mess 
things up. Also, a new line function VoigtApparatus has been created. It's a Voigt profile in which the Gaussian part's 
width has been locked as the apparatus function. VoigtFWHM is Voigt but instead of gwidth it uses fwhm. It's a bit 
more volatile than native Voigt but has intuitive values to tweak.

The best way to check the appearing lines and their properties has been to sum many spectra of a similar case 
(e.g. 50-100 laser shots deep in bulk layer where situation doesn't change much). That way the resulting spectrum has 
smoothed out the noise and every bump is a persisting line. Then subtract the background if applicable (background
multiplied with nr of summed spectra) and multiply the resulting spectrum with spectral sensitivity pixel-wise. Finally, 
adjust x-axis. This can be done with the regression function used for Pixel_info file (e.g. X = x * 1.5e-7 + 651.2) in 
the Fityk command line. Alternatively you can use the automatic process and take the output corrected spectra from 
Input_data_corrected folder. If you use only_correct_spectra = true in _user_constants.lua then automatic processing 
only outputs these files. Fityk's GUI is good for this process (except for multiplying 2 datasets pixel-wise, 
for that use utility scripts from my repository).

I've had the best results in homing in on the best bounds and variables. That is, determining the best parameters and
running the script (e.g. in 1 experiment mode). Based on the output, I adjust the parameters and run the script again.
Sometimes I return to fitting in later stages of data analysis. E.g. after generating depth profiles from Fityk 
output, I see a misidentified or otherwise strangely behaving line. Then I revisit the line in certain situations and
find optimal parameters for it. It's easier to fit everything and output everything and then pick out the interesting
parts of the output than to later return multiple times and do the whole process again. This is why the output file
contains so much information.


* To load in many datasets from a file execute "@+ < 'C:\path_to_file\HPPW257A_08.asc:1:3..8::'" in Fityk command line. 
This loads datasets in sequence to the end of the list ("@+") and takes data from the file at the filepath 
C:\path_to_file\HPPW257A_08.asc. 1 in this example selects first column as the x-axis, 3 selects the first dataset 
as the y-axis from column 3 (1st experiment is column 2) and keeps adding ("..") datasets from subsequent columns until 
column 8. This way it's easy to load 500 datasets from a file without programming anything.


* The saved sessions have a Polyline to represent the local constants that were fitted. The polyline isn't continuous 
and has gaps (regions with value of 0). This is because the local constants were fitted only in local windows and 
Polyline reflects those local windows. The output data (text file) contains values of the local constant fitting as 
the last two values in every spectral line values.


* It's difficult to estimate the noise level because sometimes stdev of a region gives erroneous result because of
some lines appearing in the region. On the other hand, local constant is influenced by unfitted lines. On the (third?)
hand, local constant is over-estimated also because it's relative to global constant and global constant is just the
minimum value of the data (not e.g. median). Taking the average or median of those noise levels could give the best 
result but needs to be tested. Currently the maximum of the two is used.


* Note that the output file contains uncertainties for every used parameter. However, due to LIBS spectra complexity 
(multiple overlapping lines, heavy noise, continuum), these can't be trusted by default. Especially if a line 
parameter is stopped by the bounds then the given standard error is bogus.


* Plot_helper.lua plots a global constant, nr_of_lines bell shaped functions, and a polyline. You can colour the 
lines as you like the output to be because running analyze_and_plot after that will keep the colours. I like to 
connect datapoints with a line too. Also if you colour the lines and then in the Gui use 
GUI => Save Current Config => As Default then Fityk will always open with that config. Example colour scheme for 
the lines for GUI image or session output (function index. colour): 
0. snow
1. maraschino
2. flora
3. aqua
4. strawberry
5. tangerine
6. clover
7. ice
8. carnation
9. maraschino
10. flora
11. aqua
12. strawberry
13. ...



* Sometimes when using GUI it throws "Error: column index out of range: [nr]" error. This is because a dataset was
selected but some dataset before it was deleted, so now a dataset that is out of bounds is selected. To fix it 
execute command "use @0". This re-selects dataset 0 (always exists, even if empty) for data transformations.

* Sometimes Fityk throws errors (e.g. "MinGW Runtime Assertion") in a separate window like the query window when my script runs. Clicking "ignore"
has never resulted any bad things for me.

* When opening a session in a new computer the session might not load the data because of an error with the working
directory. This happens when previous session defined the working directory (with "set cwd = ") but the new computer
doesn't have that directory. The fix is to delete the "set cwd" line from the session file.

* Less common and more specific errors are in Troubleshooting.txt