This file contains tips for debugging errors, crashes and otherwise weird behavior.
I've encountered many issues which were easy to fix, but for certain, some bugs persist. 
This file exists if you want to fix the bugs before I am able to.
I created this file only in v4.1, so I will add things here as I stumble upon issues.

If you encounter an error or weird behavior then please let me know! 
Even the info that a bug exists helps, although for me to fix it, I need to know how to create it.
Bonus points if you can replicate the error and describe the process to me, that helps fixing the bug.
The script has grown so large that I don't have enough manpower to test every nuance, so you'd help a lot.


Sometimes the issue could be anything but restarting the program (and therefore script) would fix it.

Sometimes the error in Fityk log points to the right line, but sometimes it's useless. 
The most foolproof way to debug something is to write print("something") into the code and see where the
code reaches before crashing. 
There is also the debug_mode at the end of the user_constants.lua file. 
The larger the number you write in debug_mode the more frequently called functions will print its name before 
running other code in the function. This helps to locate the last function which was called and the ones
before it.
Ctrl+F is your best friend when checking which variable comes from where and which functions are used where.
printTable() function can be used to print anything, including table contents
printTableFlat() function is like printTable() but in a compact way in case the output doesn't fit into the 
GUI output.


If the script crashes before even showing the yes/no user input buttons then there's a LUA syntax error.
Usually the red error points to the line where the error occurred (e.g. line has "local var == 1").
Other times it points to a completely random location, which means usually that you didn't write "end"
to the right place (e.g. started "if" but forgot to close it).
In the latter case the easiest way to debug it is to open an online LUA compiler, copy-paste the code, and
then start deleting the contents of the code. 
When the error changes then you have deleted the problematic part.

Worst bugs are when code runs and doesn't crash but acts weird.
This is usually because a variable hasn't been defined in a function but that variable gets a value from the
outer scope, that is, from the function that called it.
These kind of errors are tough to debug.


"
Lua Error:
at 63, near `9e+308,0),': unexpected token: `,'
"
Such errors are kind of useless because 63 didn't point to any meaningful location (not even in the function).
The problem in this case was creating a Fityk function but formatting the string wrong 
("Polyline(0,0, 9e308,0), 100,0)"). Other than writing a lot of print() statements, you have to guess why 
there was an error. In this case there was one ")" too much and it actually showed in the error.
In this case, printing every variable before the crash helps to debug it.


"
Error: Trying to reverse singular matrix. Column 0 is zeroed.
"
I haven't found out what causes this but it's usually when Fityk is unable to fit the line 
for some internal reason (e.g. line doesn't have derivatives).
I've had this error pop up also on a spectrum in a series where other spectra fitted fine.
I've had this error when fitting a Rectangle function (locked start and end) and the height is 0. 
If the height was 0 + infinitesimal then Fityk didn't have a problem with fitting.
E.g. this error is shown when trying to fit a polyline with 20 elements but sometimes fitting succeeds 
(e.g. with 6 elements when making a step function).
This error is also shown when trying to fit e.g. a Gaussian on flat dataset (points are active but all active
points are 0 and therefore, there is no bell shaped curve). This doesn't raise an error if the flat dataset
is e.g. value 1 because then Gaussian simply fits into a very wide bell (realistically a constant).


"
File not loaded or all points inactive
"
This is because you don't have datapoints or no datapoints are active (at least near the current line).
The error gets printed even when you're just clicking around in the GUI, so often times if there were no other
issues then this error is harmless.


"
Lua Error:
guess: empty range
File not loaded or all points inactive
"
The script is trying to guess a function (guess instead of declaring a fn and adding to F model), but there
is no data to guess on.
Guess means that e.g. Fityk finds average y under the Rectangle function but if data is inactive then avgy fails.
E.g. this happens when a line is too far from active points, so that it's influence doesn't reach active points
("default domain of variable" in settings, a.k.a. function value is negligible at active points).


"
Error: No parametrized functions are used in the model.
"
All variables of the functions are locked (constants, not simple variables or compound variables and then constants).
There is nothing to fit because Fityk modifies only simple variables during fitting.


"
Lua Error:
Singular matrix cannot be reversed. (zeroed column 2).
"
I don't know yet why this happens. I got this when trying to extract an error from a simple variable.
In Fityk command line it's caused by "p $var.error". 
I think this happens when you open a session file with fitted lines and then try to use command line to get the error
value of the variable.
Then the covariance matrix is all zeroes (fitting info is lost).
I've had this error log also when the fitting result looks good but the covariance matrix is all zeros.
Restarting the program has solved the issue sometimes.


When running fit nothing happens. Fitting process doesn't even seem to start.
There are two cases. One is that fit happens but it converges immediately (already has a good fit) and the verbosity 
of Fityk is too low to show it. You can check this by adjusting "Verbosity level" in Fityk settings.
For the other case, I don't know the cause of this but I think it happens when the fit is stuck in a local 
minimum or something, because fitting doesn't start even with a very poor fit.
Usually Fityk is stuck in this state until drastic changes take place like deleting most lines.
Changing line parameters a lot or even adding a line usually doesn't fix this once Fityk is in this state.
Restarting the program has solved the issue.
From old readme: this error was caused when the WSSR was nan. This is usually because a line has some parameter 
that is very large (e.g. shape 1e18). 
Changing it back to normal value allows fitting normally.


There is sometimes an issue in the GUI that when you zoom in near the polyline then the polyline disappears.
Zooming out makes the polyline appear again.
This is visual issue and the data saves the local constants properly.


Sometimes when using GUI it throws "Error: column index out of range: [nr]" error. This is because a dataset was
selected but some dataset before it was deleted, so now a dataset that is out of bounds is selected. To fix it 
execute command "use @0". This re-selects dataset 0 (always exists, even if empty) for data transformations.


Sometimes Fityk throws "MinGW Runtime Assertion" errors (probably after deleting line functions). Clicking "ignore"
has never resulted any bad things for me.


Sometimes Fityk throws mouse focus lost errors if the script is accessing the console exacly when you click somewhere. 
Clicking "ignore" has never resulted any bad things for me.


When opening a session in a new computer the session might not load the data because of an error with the working
directory. This happens when previous session defined the working directory (with "set cwd = ") but the new computer
doesn't have that directory. The fix is to delete the "set cwd" line from the session file.
